{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww23680\viewh15700\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\fs24 \cf0 This document describes the Williams Virtual Machine language (WVM_mode) supported by the 7eleven compiler. \

\f1\i0\b \
\
Overview 
\f2\b0           \
\
The WVM  language of 7eleven is similar to assembler in that every primitive statement consists of an optional label, an instruction, as well as a variable number of instruction arguments. There are control structures (if-then-else, loops), \'93macro\'94 instructions, as well as pinball-specific data types. \
\
\

\f1\b Notation
\f2\b0 \
\
In order to distinguish the WVM from the assembler code the WVM language uses mixed upper-lower case and long identifiers.  This includes WVM instructions (such as blinkLamps) and control structures (such as _Loop). The latter are marked with an underscore prefix to indicate that those are not simple byte-code instructions. \

\f1\b \
\
Pseudo Labels for Branch Operations
\f2\b0 \
\
There is a number of labels that are locally defined (i.e. not unique) that can be used in branch instructions.\
\
	_ExitLoop			first instruction outside this loop\
	_NextLoop			first instruction inside this loop\
\
\

\f1\b Control Structures
\f2\b0 \
\
- IF-THEN-ELSE\
	- syntax:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs22 \cf0 		_If <WVM conditional expression>\
			<WVM instructions>\
		_Else\
			<WVM instructions>\
		_EndIf
\f2\fs24 \
\
- UNLESS-ELSE-ENDULESS\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	- syntax:\

\f3\fs22 		_Unless <WVM conditional expression>\
			<WVM instructions>\
		_Else\
			<WVM instructions>\
		_EndUnless\cf2 \CocoaLigature0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 - LOOP-ENDLOOP\
	- syntax
\f3\fs22 \
		_Loop\
			<WVM instructions>\
		_EndLoop\
	
\f2\fs24 - use pseudo labels to exit loop
\f3\fs22  \
\

\f2\fs24 - LOOP-WHILE\
	- syntax
\f3\fs22 \
		_Loop\
			<WVM instructions>\
		_While <WVM conditional expression>\
	\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 - LOOP-UNTIL\
	- syntax
\f3\fs22 \
		_Loop\
			<WVM instructions>\
		_Until <WVM conditional expression>
\f2\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
- LOOP-NEXT\
	- syntax
\f3\fs22 \
		_Loop\
			<WVM instructions>\
		_Next <Reg-X>
\f2\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
	- decrement register and loop while not zero\
\
 
\f3\fs22 \

\f4\b \

\f1\fs24 WVM Conditional Expressions\
\

\f2\b0 WVM conditional expressions are byte streams of arbitrary length that evaluate to true or false. 
\f1\b \
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
Pinball Data Types\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs22 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 The pinball data types described in [DataModel.rtf] are used.
\f3\fs22 \
\
			\
	\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 \CocoaLigature1 		\
		}